# ClientServerDevelopment21EW2

### How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

I aim to write maintainable, readable, and adaptable code for programs namely by following object oritented programming concepts. Encapsulation is an object oriented programming concept that helps to ensure that code follows all the characteristics mentioned - this is key because it can easily be implemented and used elsewhere if the code is separated by functionality. Working on writing code in a modular way helps to make sure the code runs efficiently, it helps to do this to make sure each piece of the code functions the way it should. I also ensure to comment my code thoroughly so those who are reading it understand what each piece does and can replicate it or apply it to a project they are working on. I also make sure that the comments are not too involved, too many comments affectes the codes readability. In the case of CRUD, it helped me to easily write and adapt the python class and file to work in the contect of creating a visual database with dash. The advatanges of creating widgets from an already functioning code is helpful because it allows you to compartmentalize functions and be able to make use of functions written in other ways. I think I could use this module in the future to add databases and be able to sort them - and overall just add different and more advanced functionalities.  


#### How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

Approaching problems as a computer scientist I believe involves breaking down problems or programs you are creating into smaller pieces that are incorporated into the bigger picture, or in other words make up the whole program. Approaching a problem as a computer scientists involves thinking about the logical pieces you can separate from the bigger project, and making sure to test those pieces as you create them. This ensures that you can find and fix the problems early, and it is easier to identify and fix the problem area. If you wait to run the whole code, multiple errors can come up and it will be harder to identify the actual source. I didn't approach this project any differently than any other assignements. I was able to look at the project and it's requirements, break the components down and complete the project in pieces until all requirments were met and the code was error free. The technique I always use is to make a list and divide the program into requirements listed, and try to break those requirments into smaller pieces. I would continue to use this method in the future for databases and other client requirements.


#### What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists solve logical problems. They help to build programs that help both people and businesses accomplish their goals, and to meet needs. Without computer scientists, a lot of programs we use daily would not exist. Some computer scientists specialize in different systems, and different parts of the development process. This type of project will help Grazioso Salvare by providing a dashboard so that they can sort databases. Since the dashboard was built in a modular fashion, this can be reworked with more functionality in the future. This allows the company flexibility to change and update facets of the dashboard as needed. Overall, this type of project allows users to interact with a database, and be able to use the CRUD functionality as needed, and to be able to easily manage their data.

